---
layout: post
title: My experience at Bloc
feature-img: "img/Bloc_main_page.png"
---
Once I realized that I wanted to pursue programming as a career, I had no idea where to start. I had no frame of reference as to how to get a job and know that I was not going to be able to get there on my own. Another four year degree was out of the question and I was left with either a physical coding boot camp, a mentorship program, or learning on my own. I eventually settled on the Bloc part time web dev curriculum, if you want to know why I chose the path I did you can contact me and I would love to tell you about it.

Once I had made my decision to use the Bloc program to enter web development things moved very quickly. The early curriculum is a series of tutorials and guided coding that helps you get a foundation in the basics. I struggled with these early steps. I had not studied in any large capacity since college and I had let my skills as a student lapse over the subsequent 4 years. It took a few months for real progress to be made and it was not until after the course had shifted from JavaScript to Ruby that things really started to click. Early in 2017 the Ruby portion of the course got under way and I started to feel like a developer for the first time.

The course shifted as I finished the Ruby foundation course and started on a couple of guided projects. Instead of every bit of code provided I started to be able to type small portions on my own a bit at a time. This shift from copying their code, to writing my own when prompted, resulted in a large number of bugs and errors that took up more time that I would like to admit. In my weekly mentor meetings there was a shift in the content as we went from having a list of bugs to find and squash to me giving a report on the bugs I found and fixed on my own, and then we would take our remaining time and discuss industry topics. It all started to combine to give me the feeling that I could do this programming thing and be able to call myself a Developer before the year was out.

This process of getting from unsure of what to do to being able to write some simple methods and layouts has been very difficult. I have spent many days staring at a screen, never believing it would ever make sense. It it a long road to learn how to think like a developer, and I believe Bloc has been able to point me in a direction that I will be able to travel with a solid foundation behind me, and clear goals ahead of me.
